---
category: Meeting
meeting-series: OGM Wiki
source-channel: tbd
date: 2021-03-17
recording-video: tbd
jerrys-brain: tbd
---
# OGM Wiki, 2021-03-17

## Focusing Questions

What would we use a wiki for?

How would we describe the overall purpose of the OGM wiki?

* introduce anyone and the world to who we are and what we do
* provide an entry roadmap to who we are and what we do
* how do we distill what we've learned and share it easily with others
    * e.g., pattern languages
* keeping track of things?
    * intersection with other databases
    * profile pages
        * superpowers
        * gratitude / praise

What teams of volunteers do we need to make it a community asset?

How would we arrange information and knowledge in a wiki?

How would an OGM wiki interface with other communities’ knowledgebases?

How do we best explain OGM Wiki to others?

How might we experiment with uses beyond wiki?
* brains
* website builders
* book authoring
* blogs
* directories
* syndicated information (e.g. Murmurations)
* YAML front matter!

## Dreams / Needs
database of resources
- people + where you can access people (people API?)
- resources + inputs/outputs/gates
- want to feel rich, rather than looking through a window at stuff i can't reach
- people directory
- guilds directory
- general calendar
- general information about OGM
- collected pointers to call artifacts (recordings, transcripts, etc.)
- meeting notes
- patterns
- the start of some topic-based discussions
- whatever other bits and bobs will help to illuminate and ignite social processes around understanding the purpose of the wiki, starting to structure, garden, and improve the information space
