---
category: Meeting
meeting-series: Stewards
source-channel: Collective Next Zoom
date: 2021-03-30
recording-video: tbd
jerrys-brain: tbd
---
# OGM Stewards Jam Sesh, 2021-03-30

Note: if you're viewing/editing this on HackMD, the double-bracket links to other wiki pages won't be active. Ping Pete about connecting your Obsidian to OGM Wiki.

## Before The Meeting
- Jerry: integrate edits into MoU (add 'tktk' for places to review / expand)
- All: read the updated [[MoU]] when available
- Jerry, Charles: asynchronously update [[OGM Planning Timeline (Miro)]]

## Agenda
- Recap moving work back into open Stewards channels (Mattermost, OGM Wiki)
- New "OGM Stewardship" section of OGM Wiki
	- visual tour
		- other new project plans exist
	- how to view on either GitHub or Obsidian
	- how to edit the wiki (see Starter Guide)
- What is our collective bat signal?
	- how can we schedule more time for work and decisions?
	- see [[OGM Stewardship Jerry + Pete, 2021-03-28]], "Quorum for Classes of Decisions"
	- resolved, use @channel in mattermost [ogm] Stewards; we hope to get to the point where everyone sees and acts (if necessary) on it within ~12 hours
- Handles in general, guidelines, rules, suggestions, policy
    - #governance
    - obscure, pseudonymity, anonymity
    - how do you identify yourself? how do we know you?
- [[Finalizing Lionsberg+OGM MoU]]
- Work [[Communicating Lionsberg Process to OGM]]
- Work [[OGM Program & Project Management Tool Decision]]
	- who's in the conversation, internally and externally?
	- quick discussion of Notion + Massive Wiki + federation

- Discuss who wants to meet with Lionsberg General Counsel
	- see [[Finalizing Lionsberg+OGM MoU]]
	- Charles, to track legal language
	- Pete
	- keep notes and recording and share back to Stewards

- recap [[Lionsberg + OGM, 2021-03-25]]

## Action Items
- Pete to update [[Finalizing Lionsberg+OGM MoU]] timeline with new input about communication plan
